Freedman et al. (2024): rTMS and Mind–Matter Interaction

Freedman and colleagues tested whether inhibiting the frontal lobes
could unmask psi (here, psychokinesis) ￼ ￼. They recruited 108 healthy
adults and applied continuous theta-burst rTMS to induce a transient
“virtual lesion” in either the left or right medial middle frontal
cortex (Brodmann areas 9/10/32), with a sham coil control ￼ ￼. After
stimulation, participants were asked to mentally influence a computer
arrow driven by a truly random-bit generator (each trial summed 200
random bits, arrow moving right if >100, left if <100) ￼ ￼. Importantly,
analysis was weighted to emphasize early trials (when rTMS effects are
strongest) using a tapering logistic/arctan function.

The findings showed a clear lateralized effect: only left-frontal
inhibition produced a significant psi effect. In the left-rTMS group,
arrows deviated toward the intended side above chance (significant
intention×stimulation interaction), whereas neither right-rTMS nor sham
produced any effect ￼ ￼. The unweighted model showed no effect, but the
weighted analysis revealed a moderate psychokinetic shift after
left-frontal cTBS. Freedman et al. interpret this to mean the left
medial frontal lobe normally suppresses psi: when this “filter” is
turned off, latent mind–matter interaction emerges ￼ ￼. They note that
right-frontal TMS had no benefit (and may have impaired attention),
suggesting a special role for the left prefrontal cortex in gating psi.

Relevance to Psi: These results support a psi-inhibitory filter model of
the brain. Freedman et al. tie this to older ideas (Bergson’s 1914
filter, Ehrenwald 1975) and the “noise-reduction” model of psi ￼ ￼. In
practice, their study suggests that people with natural or induced
frontal lesions (or in altered frontal states) could be an “enriched”
sample for future psi experiments ￼ ￼. If robust, the findings imply
humans may have suppressed psi abilities, made observable when left
frontal control is dampened. However, the effect relies on complex post
hoc weighting and remains small, highlighting the need for replication
and careful methodology.

Ganzfeld/Precognition Studies (2019–2024)

Watt et al. (2020) tested precognition in a ganzfeld ESP design. They
pre-selected participants high in creativity, belief or practice of psi,
and used a fully automated telepathy/precog protocol with video clips as
targets ￼. In 60 trials, 22 were correct hits (37% hit rate),
significantly above the 25% chance expectation (p=0.03, one-tailed) ￼.
Crucially, they also measured altered-state experiences (ganzfeld
questionnaires) but found no correlation between reported trance depth
and psi score ￼. In other words, while the overall result was
statistically positive, individual “psi-conducive” states did not
predict performance.

Lieb et al. (2024) introduced an innovative VR/ganzfeld paradigm.
Senders (in romantic pairs) played randomly-chosen interactive video
games in virtual reality, while receivers wore goggles producing a
uniform red or green visual field (“ganzfeld”) ￼. Across 48
sender–receiver trials, there were 15 hits (against 12 expected by
chance) – a non-significant result (p≈0.20) ￼. Hit rates did not differ
between red vs. green ganzfeld, and neither game-specific experiences
nor absorption scores predicted success ￼.

These studies illustrate that altered sensory states (ganzfeld or
immersion) can produce nonzero hit rates, but often borderline
significance and without clear state-dependency. Watt et al. showed a
modest precognitive effect (with stringent controls) but no link to
subjective trance ￼. Lieb et al.’s negative result suggests that even
novel sensory homogenization (VR sender + colored ganzfeld receiver) did
not reliably elicit psi ￼. In sum, recent ganzfeld/ESP experiments
continue to find at best small psi effects. They highlight the challenge
that altered states alone (ganzfeld, VR) do not guarantee psi, and that
effect sizes remain low.

Remote Viewing and Emotional/Cognitive Models

Escolà-Gascón et al. (2023) revisited the CIA remote-viewing (RV)
protocols with modern methods. They ran two large forced-choice RV
tasks: one group of 347 nonbelievers with coordinate targets, and one of
287 believers with pictorial targets ￼. Emotional intelligence (EI) was
measured in all. The first group (nonbelievers) showed no psi hits. The
second group (believers) showed a small but significant effect: hit
rates were about 19.5% (vs. 25% chance), and crucially this above-chance
performance was statistically predicted by higher EI ￼. In other words,
only participants who both believed in psi and had greater emotional
sensitivity scored above chance.

From these data, the authors propose a new
“Production–Identification–Comprehension (PIC)” emotional model of
remote viewing ￼. They suggest that emotions and intuitive feelings
during the RV task (Production) lead participants to identify
impressions (Identification) and then consciously comprehend the target
(Comprehension). High emotional intelligence, they argue, enhances each
stage. Thus, emotional/cognitive traits are seen as crucial moderators:
psi is not merely “random noise,” but may emerge in those with
particular mind–brain dispositions. This aligns with a recurring
pattern: recent studies find psi effects only in selected conditions or
samples (e.g. believing or high-EI individuals ￼). Escolà-Gascón’s work
is among the few large-sample, statistical psi experiments in 2019–2024,
and it explicitly links psi to neurocognitive factors.

Altered Consciousness and Telepathy

Johnstad (2020) conducted an interview study on “psychedelic telepathy.”
Among 40 psychedelic-drug users, 16 reported experiences they described
as telepathic ￼. Three types emerged: (1) exchanging images or ideas,
(2) “telempathy” – direct sharing of feelings, and (3) a merged state
where personal thoughts blurred with another’s ￼. While not an
experimental test, this qualitative research suggests that intense
altered states (from LSD, psilocybin, etc.) are interpreted by subjects
as telepathy. It highlights a pattern seen elsewhere: profound
ego-dissolution and synchronized mental states (via psychedelics or
meditation) often accompany claims of psi. Johnstad concludes that these
reports warrant controlled experiments (e.g. double-blind tests under
psychedelics) to probe “psychedelic telepathy.” This study itself
doesn’t prove psi, but it points to convergences between altered states
research and psi — namely that reducing self-boundaries (via drugs)
correlates with perceived anomalous cognition ￼.

Neurocognitive Models and Commentary

Several recent works attempt to explain how psi could fit neuroscience.
Freedman et al.’s frontal-filter model is one: the left prefrontal
cortex normally suppresses “anomalous signals,” so inhibiting it (via
rTMS or lesions) allows psi to surface ￼ ￼. This concept resonates with
earlier ideas (Ehrenwald’s brain-filter and Honorton’s noise-reduction
model) that weaker, externally-originating information is normally
filtered by the self ￼ ￼.

Escolà-Gascón (2024) goes further by invoking a quantum-like mechanism.
In his Brain Research Bulletin study, he designed implicit-learning
tasks that violated classical conditioning (e.g. subliminal cues tied to
random-dot motions via a quantum RNG) and found participants could
implicitly “learn” these contingencies above chance ￼. He frames this as
a “Nonlocal Plasticity Theory”: the brain behaves as if guided by
nonlocal (quantum-entangled) information, allowing a new form of
implicit learning that could underlie precognitive or anticipatory
effects ￼. Neural correlates (via EEG) supported his claim of
non-classical prediction. While highly speculative, this model attempts
to ground anomalous cognition in a testable framework.

Escolà-Gascón’s remote-viewing work also yielded a cognitive model (PIC)
linking emotion to psychic perception ￼. Another perspective is offered
by Acunzo (2023): he argues that standard cognitive-neuroscience methods
could illuminate psi. His commentary suggests using EEG/fMRI during psi
tasks to identify brain networks (e.g. the default-mode network during
free-response ESP) and even natural-language processing to automate
scoring of free-form responses ￼ ￼. In short, Acunzo urges a
methodological bridge between neuroscience and parapsychology, while
acknowledging their conflicting assumptions.

Emerging Patterns and Challenges

Across these studies, some patterns and challenges stand out.
Convergence: Many assume that psi emerges under atypical brain states –
e.g. reduced frontal inhibition (Freedman), altered sensory input
(ganzfeld), deep absorption (meditation/psychedelics) or
emotional/intuitive focus (Escolà-Gascón). The idea is that normal
conscious filtering or attention (especially left frontal, DMN activity,
ego boundaries) must be relaxed for psi to appear ￼ ￼. Emotional or
trait factors (belief, emotional intelligence, absorption) recurrently
appear as moderators ￼ ￼.

Methodological notes: These modern experiments tend to be
well-controlled (randomization, blinding, pre-registration in some
cases) and often use novel technology (neurostimulation, VR, automated
RNGs, EEG). Still, effect sizes are small. Freedman needed weighted
analysis to detect the left-TMS effect ￼, and the VR-ganzfeld hits in
Lieb (2024) were statistically non-significant ￼. The gap between
hypotheses and results remains large: for example, Watt et al. (2020)
expected altered states to enhance psi but found no link ￼.

Theoretical status: Researchers are increasingly proposing explicit
neurocognitive models, but these are highly tentative. Freedman’s filter
hypothesis and Escolà-Gascón’s quantum-learning theory provide different
explanations, reflecting the field’s theoretical diversity. Some critics
(e.g. Kekecs 2024, not cited here) point out that such findings are
easily confounded by expectation or statistical artifacts. Acunzo (2023)
acknowledges that mainstream neuroscience is skeptical of psi, but he
believes empirical study (tracking brains during claimed psi) could
clarify things ￼.

Summary: In sum, from 2019–2024 psi research has intersected more with
neuroscience: using TMS or altered states to “turn off” assumed
inhibitory mechanisms, and probing psi through rigorous cognitive tasks.
A tentative picture emerges that psi might be latent in all humans but
only detectable under special brain conditions (e.g. low frontal
control, high emotion/intuition) ￼ ￼. However, these studies also
underscore the field’s challenges: effects are small, often
controversial, and require sophisticated models to explain. Ongoing work
(e.g. examining DMN or network dynamics ￼, or testing “psi under
psychedelics”) aims to find converging evidence or rule out artifacts.
All in all, the recent literature remains provocative but inconclusive,
calling for more replication and better integration with known brain
science ￼ ￼.

Sources: Recent experimental psi literature (2019–2024) has been used,
including Freedman et al. (2024, Cortex) ￼, Escolà-Gascón et al. (2023,
Brain & Behavior) ￼, Escolà-Gascón (2024, Brain Res. Bull.) ￼ ￼, Watt et
al. (2020, J. Parapsychology) ￼, Lieb et al. (2024, J. Anomalistics) ￼,
Johnstad (2020, J. Sci. Exploration) ￼, and Acunzo (2023, J. Sci.
Exploration) ￼. These represent peer-reviewed studies or credible
reports on neurocognitive approaches to psi, as discussed above.
