2350
Hello. Today I am writing. I'm practicing my ability to externalize what is in my head in writing. It's something I struggle with and I don't think it's anything to do with the amount of thoughts I have or the clarity of them, I think it's the resistance to creating something I might want to come back to later. It feels like a demand. I know I don't have to come back to my writing, but I think I have a lot of worthwhile things to say that realistically I often want to come back to and use in some way, so that knowledge is inescapable to a certain extent. I think sometimes writing can also be a more elaborate way to overthink, because I can think of how to say the same thing a million different ways, but that can often be the extent to which my thoughts evolve. Deep elaboration and clarification, streamlining even, but when it comes to embodied action and implementation I am definitely struggling. 

I feel like I get really caught up between sound explanations for why my behavior follows certain patterns, and possible excuse-driven perspectives that serve nothing more than to absolve me of shame surrounding my shortcomings, particularly my inaction. I think writing reminds me just how much I have to say, and I get frustrated with the bottleneck of the English language typed on a computer into computer software that hurts my ability to distribute my thoughts as much as it helps. 

I am often being told that I have things to say that people will likely want and need to hear, but there is a part of me that hesitates due to the realization that my lifetime of cause and effect relationships has failed to result in a very in-depth or integrated understanding of human relationship and experience beyond my limited and highly thematic experience. What I'm saying is, what I have experienced is so unique to me, that I worry my perspective and subsequent wisdom is coming from an unreliable and potentially distorted lens. Does it carry value to me? Have the lessons I've learned resulted in rewarding and healthful evolution in my life? Of course, that's inevitable to the extent that I am reflecting on my experiences, however, as far as the efficiency or accuracy of my methods, I have a difficult time seeing my authority to endorse anything of the sort by sharing the decisions I have made in detail or in a flattening linear explanation. 

It's not that my insights are so complex or so profound that another party would struggle to understand or implement my methods, it's that my choices are centered around myself. They are nested within decision patterns that have accumulated across my whole life. They are connected to experiences and associations that are informed by the qualia of my individual awareness, and each moment forces upon me decisions I may not choose to make under any other circumstance but the present moment, which I then must account for in the explanation of my techniques and methods. As you can see, this creates difficulty in translation. What level of personal detail must remain to prevent losing the essence of the insight that led me to a more effective and rewarding path. How much do I strip away before it becomes another platitude? Is the non-linear nature of my inner experience carried by the temporal train of existence able to be translated in a way that anyone else could possibly do anything with, or am I simply adding more sand to the storm? 

I need to get better at translating my sensory experiences to language, which means I need to read more fiction and expressive writing in general. I need to think about how these words feel for me, because I often get caught up in trying to imagine how things feel for others. Not necessarily intellectually, but experientially. The sensation of their experience. The emotional weight. What I have failed to internalize about this process is that I am limited to my own experience of sensation as a point of reference no-matter-what, so the level to which my personal internal landscape has been mapped and successfully navigated and built a relationship with wholeheartedly defines my ability to accurately track and empathize with others' experiences. I have the operation down, but the specific functions of the system are out of date. My relationship with my inner sensing, my intuition, my inner world building, has been full of contradiction and strain from the moment I became aware. What I see, what I think I'm seeing, what I'm told I'm seeing, what others think I see, what is there, and what others think is there... they have always failed to line up in a way that has given me any solid point of reference for interfacing with reality. 

As getting older has failed to reward honesty time and time again, I become increasingly more infatuated with the idea of honesty. The possible reality that could only be possible in a world where transparency was the standard. Not transparency in the nobody-has-secrets-and-everything-is-public-and-everything-and-everyone-can-be-trusted, but transparency in the sense that people are just matter-of-fact about their lived reality. Yes, this is hard. Yes, I don't know. Yes, I don't like this. I'm confused, tell me what's happening. This hurts. This is incredible. I just want accurate reflections of each individual's conscious experience, because that is the fruit that is always ripe. 

Writing is also hard because I watch my ideas fall away from me in real time. I can only get out so many thoughts at once. I am forced to follow a thread, but there's an entire tapestry behind this veil. I don't know about my metaphors, I don't think I'm very good at it most of the time. This is what I mean when I say I need to read more creative writing. I think what happens is my associations are limited to my immediate environment which I have become numb to and detached from. I need more novel input for my consciousness to evolve metaphors that accurately represent my lived experience. I have hundreds of scattered notes amongst my devices and written on notecards and sticky notes and in journals, making connections and articulating what I see and feel in ways that feel so visceral in the moment, but are experientially lost to time. My only hope is to experience it once again, but as you can imagine with so many things going through my head at any given moment, it gets hard to pin down common threads that aren't already things I have become too familiar with the actively recognize anymore, coupled with the need for constant novel input to feel alive, I don't often experience the same flowery experiences twice. If I do it's certainly of note, but as a result this means I have a wealth of descriptions of my experiences that I simply can't tune into in any meaningful way. No more than you could if you shared a memory with a friend but had not rehearsed the memory since it occurred. Similar memories may persist, but that individual experience can not be felt again. The combination of patterns that led to that decision point is not replicable beyond the surface patterns. The essence is lost, reduced to nothing more than a translation. Information without the info that formed it. 

I also recognize my impossible expectation that everything I write has a place and purpose. I would say my consciousness has a broad distribution and a strong resonance with boundary dissolution, which means I want to cover everything all at once and be limited by nothing. Reviewing and editing feel like a waste of time when time and repetition offer more than enough to bring things into sharper clarity, but actively adding to and taking away from what is feels like defiling to me. It feels like erasing essential nuance and context that informs the decision making process of what led to the current understanding, but I also recognize this as hoarding information. 

I also get caught up on word count and how long it takes me to write. I try and imagine a whole 8 hour day of writing as if I were an author or a blogger or a researcher or a journalist, and it sounds like hell. How could I possibly write that much? I don't want to edit what I have to say. There are so many scenarios I can imagine in my head with nothing more than the imagined sensation of overwhelm and defeat. Decades worth of suffering and shame and confusion and lack of direction with nothing more then a sense based on an idea. It gets old writing things like this and still being immersed in the dissonance of the issue itself. 

