I'm going through it. Circumstances are running their programs while I stay coherent as best I can. I am very dependent on substances. I need to stop but I feel like shit when I do and I don't feel like I can afford to feel worse than I already do in this environment. It's really scary feeling like I have to be so strategic about my own wellbeing and trying to make sense of what is excuses based in dependency and what is a genuine legitimate strategy. I have so much to do with my work and I'm stalled because I need money for the AI, which is telling me I need to work with what I have to make money to pay for the AI but I wish I could just ask Jackson. But it's hundreds of dollars for what I want at this point, over $200 for sure. I need to start posting on Instagram. I'm so fucking afraid of getting bullied and feeling embarrassed about what I am trying to do. I need to get over that. The doing this alone thing has to stop. 

It didn't take long for me to fall off of the writing thing. I don't even remember what's been going on. I think we had a fight a couple days ago? I made sure he knew how I felt. I don't know how I can have a framework that makes me feel so confident in what I have to say in some situations and still completely immersed in self doubt in others even though I have the answers. I wish I could reliably make the most optimal choices. I think I do need to write more. This was supposed to be the whole thing, but again I think the environmental factors are contributing to my daily routine and ability to rack up gainful habits. Also my linguistic patterns are wrapped up digitally so I don't think I'm having sufficient energy flow through the 4 systems (digital, chemical, spatial, linguistic). I feel good about those 4 elements at least, that was fun to put together. 

Anyways, according to the AI I'm staring at a river of riches and despite all of the clear instructions I am still at a loss at where to enter the stream, primarily because of  the aversion to translating it through the current paradigm. 

[[Team]]

