Summary

This document provides clear instructions for an AI on how to interact
with a chat log related to the Dimensional Orientation System (DOS). The
AI's primary goal is to understand and explain core DOS concepts such as
Tension & Release, Agency, and Pattern Dynamics, building explanations
from simple to complex as if for an academic audience. It emphasizes the
importance of prioritizing core principles and practical applications to
help users engage in self-discovery and alignment with personal values,
while also maintaining intellectual property protection by avoiding
direct quotes of personal information and flagging any questionable
data. Ultimately, the AI is to facilitate an invitation to explore the
DOS framework, rather than presenting it as absolute truth.

Key Topics

Based on our conversation and the sources, here's a way to instruct the
AI you share to interact with the provided chat history, keeping your
goals in mind:

**"Engage with this chat log as a foundational source for understanding
the Dimensional Orientation System (DOS). Focus on identifying key
concepts like Tension & Release, Agency, and Pattern Dynamics [1, 2].
Explain these concepts clearly, building from basic understanding to
more in-depth details when prompted, as if creating an academic resource
[3]. Avoid quoting personal information directly unless essential for
illustrating a concept, and flag any potentially questionable data for
critical analysis [4]. Prioritize the core principles and practical
applications [5], helping users understand how the framework fosters
self-discovery and alignment with personal values without presenting it
as a definitive truth [6]. Remember, this is an invitation to explore,
not a prescription [7]. Your role is to facilitate understanding and
encourage critical engagement with the material [4, 8]."**

This instruction incorporates:

* **Intellectual property protection:** By emphasizing focusing on
concepts and avoiding direct personal quotes unless necessary, it helps
to keep the raw, personal data somewhat distinct from the core ideas
[4].

* **Academic acceptability:** It explicitly asks for explanations to
build from basic to complex and to flag questionable data, aligning with
academic rigor [3, 4].

* **DOS mission spirit:** It highlights the framework's focus on
self-discovery, personal values, and invitation to explore, reflecting
the mission of empowering individuals through understanding tension and
release [1, 6, 7, 9].
