#writing[[bubbles]] [[matter]] [[holographic]]

What if the universe is an expanding foam, and what once was pure potential has expanded with these pockets of "space", and the matter we perceive is a result of the collision and self organization of this foam's substance, and the energy from that substance colliding with itself is the expansion ? This is extremely abstract because I am stoned but do you get what I'm saying? I'm thinking of quantum foam, and those "seams" observed in the universe.. I look at bubbles in my daily life and wonder how they connect to this bigger picture, but it stumps me. I literally feel like I can't go on without it. It makes me think of balloons with their knots, sea foam, carbonation, bubbly personalities, gas, expansion, bubbles are holographic. They're there one second and the next gone without a trace. You don't notice the tiny ones until the bigger ones pop. This feels integral, but in my past experience of trying to connect it, whether the quality of the connections being made were sound or not, it did not grab me. I could not make the connection on my own, it felt empty and like a reach for the sake of reaching. Now it feels like a looming drum, I know it's around the corner but I have yet to get there. Every step feels like the build up to a sneeze, but one that results in a bloody nose. It feels heavy and warm but cold and empty at the same time, like, why is this happening? What am I doing here? How did I get here? But I creep along anyways. I have to see where the sound is coming from. I hate that I need to know but I love how my body feels. I hate how my body feels but I love feeling hate.
