Gauging Receptivity to Pattern-Based Thinking: Refined Instagram
Engagement Questions

Here's a refined approach to assess your audience's openness to the
holographic-toroidal framework through thoughtfully designed Instagram
engagement:

1. Pattern Recognition Assessment

Poll: How often do you notice connections between seemingly unrelated
topics or events?

- Constantly - I see patterns everywhere

- Occasionally - usually when I'm relaxed or inspired

- Rarely - I tend to focus on things individually

Follow-up: What's the most unexpected connection you've discovered that
changed how you understand something? (Share a brief example to
encourage authentic responses)

2. Epistemological Flexibility Measure

Poll: When presented with information that contradicts what you've long
believed:

- I get curious and explore the contradiction

- I weigh both perspectives before deciding

- I typically trust my established understanding

Follow-up: What's one belief you held with certainty that completely
transformed after encountering new information? What catalyzed that
change?

3. Coherence Preference Evaluation

Poll: When trying to understand complex systems (health, society,
environment), do you prefer:

- Finding the underlying patterns that connect everything

- Examining each component in isolation first

- Using established frameworks from experts

Follow-up: What's one complex challenge you believe is actually simpler
than experts make it out to be? What pattern or principle makes it
clearer?

4. Dimensional Thinking Assessment

Poll: Do you believe that:

- Different scales (atoms to ecosystems) follow similar organizing
  principles

- Each scale operates according to completely different rules

- I haven't considered this relationship before

Follow-up: Have you ever applied a principle from one domain (nature,
technology, relationships) to solve a problem in a completely different
area? What happened?

5. Field Resonance Receptivity

Poll: When you "just know" something without logical reasoning, do you:

- Trust it as valid information from another way of knowing

- Consider it but seek logical validation

- Dismiss it as unreliable unless logically proven

Follow-up: What's the most significant decision you've made based on
intuition that proved correct, even when the logical evidence wasn't
clear?

6. Integration Capacity Measurement

Poll: Which statement resonates most with you:

- The boundaries between scientific disciplines are artificial
  constructs

- Specialized knowledge requires separate domains and approaches

- Some boundaries are necessary while others limit understanding

Follow-up: What's one connection between different fields (art/science,
psychology/physics, etc.) that fundamentally changed your perspective?

7. Implementation Strategy

Create a visually engaging carousel with:

- Each slide presenting one question with simple, elegant visuals
  incorporating subtle toroidal patterns

- Progressive complexity across the sequence to filter for the most
  receptive audience members

- Final slide offering deeper exploration for those who engaged
  consistently

Include a caption that frames this as exploration of "how we understand
patterns and connections in an increasingly complex world" rather than
testing receptivity to a specific framework.

This approach identifies pattern-receptive individuals while avoiding
triggering defensiveness among those with more conventional
perspectives.
